BGP relies heavily on the proper operation of each AS and their interoperability and interconnectedness. It is thus important to assign a metric quantifying the node centrality. Let us say, for instance, there is an AS which is at the heart of the network, thereby having a lot of transit traffic to and from other ASes. Any malfunction with regard to its operation could bear the possibility of causing widespread outages across other ASes. Such an AS is deemed to have a high ‘Global AS hegemony score’. As the name suggests, the repercussions are huge and widespread.  On the other hand, if we consider the relevance of any AS with respect to a particular AS only, we refer to that as the local hegemony score of the AS. The after-effects of a malfunction within such an AS may not have dire consequences for the majority of the system, yet causing outage in the concerned stub AS. These scores are made available every 15 minutes for every AS using the Internet Health Report API []. Having quantified the metrics, let us focus on how the hegemony scores can be used to detect the anomalies with the operation of BGP.

Transit ASes having a high global hegemony score would be mostly connected to another AS with a high score, unless it is an end point or a stub network. Therefore, plotting a graph of the global hegemony score versus the AS coming in the path should ideally be a flattened curve with not very steep valleys. In the incident of any forgery in the AS path, we shall now see how this metric helps in detecting an anomaly. Suppose, the ASes in consideration are ‘X’ and ‘Y’ and are responsible for the transit traffic. Their respective AS hegemony scores should be around the same value. Now, if any hijacker forges the path and causes a diversion in the traffic through an AS ‘Z’, the plot would show a steep valley for the connection of ASes ‘X’ and ‘Z’ and ASes ‘Y’ and ‘Z’. The occurrence of this valley depicts the possibility of an anomaly in the network. However, it should be noted that valleys in such plots could be normal as well and for genuine reasons. To distinguish such dips in the curve from the anomalous ones, a threshold needs to be put in place. If the depth exceeds this threshold, the anomalous behavior may be confirmed. 

Similarly, ASes that are located closer to the stub networks or the origin AS would have a higher local hegemony score. Any change in the paths between the two ASes would cause a significant change in the local AS hegemony scores, thus depicting an anomaly.
